- Documenting your designs, documenting your APIs,
and documenting your code are all
built into a team's development process.
What usually isn't part of the process
is documenting all of the security decisions
you have made.
Now, I know, I know, I've heard all the excuses
in the book about documentation.
Heck, I've used many of them myself.
I've heard documentation is dead
the minute it's written, or documentation is never read,
or that it's too hard to find the answers you really need.
The point is, though, that regardless of the excuses,
there is value in documentation
especially in the security realm, as you will see.
One of the first things that you should document
even if only on Post-it Notes is how are going to deal
with security-related bugs found in production.
Now, I won't argue that you need a full-blown
vulnerability management plan, you do,
but that's for another course.
You do, however, at least need to have a plan
to prioritize and fix production security bugs
and route them through your development process.
This document can be very useful when a really bad bug
or an industry scare shows its ugly head.
You will be better prepared to move the fix
quickly to production and protect your company
and your customers.
You should also document your risks in a risk register.
The purpose of this is to not only document
the risks that are in the application,
but the ways you plan to mitigate those risks.
This can be very valuable to a team
when trying to determine where the risks are
in your application during a planning session
or design review.
Having risks documented gives you the foundation
when it's time to reevaluate your risks.
I also believe in documenting your risk mitigation
and testing strategy.
This can be easily incorporated
into your definition-of-done statement,
assuming, of course, that you want security testing
to be part of that definition.
There are a couple of other areas of documentation
that I feel are so important
that they're worth mentioning here.
One is documenting your security bugs.
Now, this is beyond just production bugs
that are usually tracked in your issue tracking system.
This document should be in the form of a bug book.
As you're either fixing or identifying an issue,
no matter the phase, you should document it
in your bug book.
This bug book can be reviewed at team meetings
as training tools.
Now, be careful not to make this a blame game.
Instead, make it an educational tool.
You may find that your developers can learn
from each other's mistakes.
The other is documenting traceability
between your automated tests and the risk that they address.
Now, this documentation should be in the form
of a common naming pattern for your tests themselves.
On reason to do this is that as you evaluate your risks
and make changes, you know immediately
which tests you need to address,
whether it's an update, a rewrite, or a flat out removal
from the test suite.
Another reason is that this will prevent regression
of security bugs.
These can be especially nasty from a publicity perspective
to have that same bug identified multiple times.
Now, this is just a glance at documentation,
but I do hope it gives you a solid perspective
into the needs of documenting your security stance
and the value around it.